---
title: C.R.E.A.M
author: tom
---

<!--more-->
Money makes the world go ‘round. In fact, most people will tell you that the best measure of success is money, and, to an extent, it makes sense because money allows you to buy anything you need to live: food, water, shelter. But as the only animals that use money...Other than that dog I just read about who pays for treats using leaves it finds outside. It’s crazy how we’ve allowed money to remove us from our basic instinct for survival. We no longer devote our time towards finding food, water, shelter, In fact, many of us don’t do work that even relates to our human survival needs. We instead do work with the sole purpose of maintaining wealth, or teaching others how to earn and maintain wealth, or create tools that help us store, built and maintain wealth. We spend our time sitting at a screen to earn money, and hope to have enough money that our money earns more money than we can spend in our lifetime. The real kicker is that we often do all of this at the expense of our own health...just to be the richest person in the graveyard.

While money started as a means to an end, it has now become its own end...an end that conflicts with the original end that it was a means towards. The use of money has brought many humans to the point that they would not be able to survive without it. Many of us no longer know how to garden, hunt, or build shelter...skills that were once essential to survival, we only know how to order what we need to get it delivered overnight...and barring some post-apocalyptic scenario, I suppose there’s nothing wrong with that. My point isn’t that we are dooming ourselves to forgetting how to live, but simply that we have fundamentally changed our basic desires as a species. And why shouldn’t we...after all, if it doesn’t make dollars, it doesn’t make sense.